# Account
[<< BACK](index.md)

Every transaction has an account as the target. An account is, basically, a context of execution
for a smart contract and a container for data. 

In order to send transactions to the blockchain the only thing that can't be derived from other info is a pair of cryptograghic ECDSA keys ().

## Types



### Basic

Basic account's ID is derived via applying a hash function to a public key and then encoding it in Base 58.  
Account ID of a basic account can be obtained from public key with a T2Lib method.
```ts
T2lib.getAccountId(myPubKey: T2lib.BaseECKey)
    .then((accId: string) => {
        // do something
    })
    .catch();
```
<br/>
However to facilitate blockchain operations there is a a special T2lib.Account() class.

```ts
const myAcc = new T2lib.Account();
```
This creates an empty account class object which can later be used to generate or import an account.

<br/>

### "Soulless"

Called this way because there is no public ECDSA key that can be used to derive is's account Id.


## Generation

To generate a new account use the following method.
```ts
myAcc.generate()
    .then(() => {
        // do something with myAcc
    })
    .catch();
```
It will perform all necessary operations and initializes a ready-to-operate account. To get the accountId simply do:
```ts
const accId = myAcc.accountId;
```

<br/>

## Import / Export

You can operate account's key pair/ individual keys in the same way you would do for such standalone classes. Meaning export/import methods are the same.
```ts
myAcc.keyPair.generate().then(/* ... */);
myAcc.keyPair.privateKey.getPKCS8().then(/* ... */);
```
However, by doing so you will need to set the accountId manually.
```ts
T2lib.getAccountId(myPubKey)
    .then((id: string) => {
        myAcc.accountId = id;
        // do something
    });
```

As an alternnative you can use one of the methods below to leave it to the library.
```ts
// sets priv key, pub key and Id
myAcc.setKeyPair(myKeyPair).then(/* ... */);

// sets priv key, derives pub key from it and also sets Id
myAcc.setPrivateKey(myPrivKey).then(/* ... */);

// only sets pub key and Id
myAcc.setPublicKey(myPubKey).then(/* ... */);
```
